#summary an example project to demonstrate the features of nlstools

= Introduction =
The project is checked in SVN in the example folder. Check out the sources and refer to the build.xml file.

You need to have apache ant installed to execute the scripts.
  
  * Open a command window in directory nlstools/example/exampleProject
  * Invoke the ant-build target "generate-sources-all" (which is the default target)
{{{
   ant
}}}

This creates a 'src' directory with generated sources for various target languages.
You can use this principle (the build.xml) as a starting point for your projects.

You can run the tasks separately:
  * ant generate-sources-java
  * ant generate-sources-flex
  * ant generate-sources-json
  * ant generate-sources-sql

You can use the excel file instead of the xml file:
  * Invoke ant with 'ant -DbundlesType=.xls' instead of the default '.xml'


= Best practises =

Alle labels of GUI elements and messages in the applications are maintained in resource bundle files. During development, these files are kept in the version control systems together with the sources, in XML-files. We generate some artifacts based on these files as required.

This side describes, how to maintain the files and exchange them with employees, that are responsible for translation of new languages. Usually, these employees are freelancers that need a tool, that is easy to use for their translation tasks.


== Add a new locale ==

Sometimes a new locale should be added and we need to prepare the resource bundles files beforehand.


=== How-to ===

  * Open a command window in directory nlstools/example/exampleProject
  * Invoke the ant-build target "addLocale" with the "newLocale" property

Example to add the Spanisch language to the main-default.xml file:


{{{
 ant -DnewLocale=es_ES addLocale
}}}

  * Check the xml-file, rename/replace as required and do the same for other xml-files of the project (refer to build.xml how to adapt the ant target)

== File exchange with translator==

Our experience shows, that freelancer translators find it difficult to deal with XML files or that the XML files they return are usually corrupted. Attention is also required when they are working with systems with a different charset.

We suggest to exchange Excel-Spreadsheets instead of XML, because
  * Usability is better for the translator
  * Excel-Spreadsheets can be enhanced, so that some parts of the sheets are read-only
  * The tools we are using to develop the software can also handle excel sheets, not only XML

=== How-to send a file to the translator ===

  * Open a command window in directory nlstools/example/exampleProject
  * Invoke the ant-build target "convert-xml-to-excel"

{{{
ant convert-xml-to-excel
}}}


  * Send the Excel files (those ending with .xls) to the translator. You can set some cells to read-only before you send the files or you can delete the locales from the excel files, that you do not want to include.

=== How-to work with a file received from the translator ===

  * Check the excel files whether the translator has provided a correct format
  * Copy the files to their positions (just besides their XML-counterpart)
  * Open a command window in directory nlstools/example/exampleProject
  * Compare the changes and check the bundle. (The property 'newLocale' can be omitted.)

{{{
ant -DnewLocale=es_ES compare-bundles
}}}

==== Option 1 ====

  * IF you want to convert the whole Excel-file back to XML (and replace the XML files), invoke the ant-build target "convert-excel-to-xml"


{{{
ant convert-excel-to-xml
}}}

==== Option 2 ====

  * IF you want to merge specific locales from theExcel-file back into XML, invoke the ant-build target "merge-bundles

{{{
 ant -DnewLocale=es_ES merge-bundles
}}}